Technology is
rapidly changing and
so are the tactics and
techniques that attackers use.
As digital
infrastructure evolves,
security professionals are
expected to continually grow
their skills in order to
protect and secure
sensitive information.
In this video, we'll discuss
some job responsibilities of
an entry-level security analyst.
So, what do security analysts do?
Security analysts
are responsible for
monitoring and protecting
information and systems.
Now, we'll discuss three
primary responsibilities
of a security analyst,
starting with protecting
computer and network systems.
Protecting computer and
network systems requires
an analyst to monitor an
organization's internal network.
If a threat is detected, then
an analyst is generally
the first to respond.
Analysts also often take
part in exercises to
search for weaknesses in an
organization's own systems.
For example, a
security analyst may
contribute to penetration
testing or ethical hacking.
The goal is to penetrate or hack
their own organization's
internal network
to identify vulnerabilities and
suggest ways to strengthen
their security measures.
Think of it like this.
After you lock your car,
you check the door
handles to make sure
no one can access any
valuables you keep inside.
Security analysts also
proactively work to
prevent threats from
happening in the first place.
One way they do this
is by working with
information technology,
or IT, teams to install
prevention software
for the purposes of
identifying risks
and vulnerabilities.
Analysts may also be involved
in software and
hardware development.
They'll often work with
development teams to
support product
security by setting up
appropriate processes
and systems to
meet the organization's
data protection needs.
The last task we'll discuss is
conducting periodic
security audits.
A security audit is
a review of an organization's
security records,
activities, and other
related documents.
For example, an analyst may
examine in-house
security issues,
such as making sure that
confidential information,
like individual
computer passwords,
isn't available
to all employees.
Phew, that was a lot to cover!
But hopefully you have
a general idea of what
entry-level security analysts
do on a day-to-day basis.
Security analysts are
an important part of
any organization.
Their daily tasks protect
small businesses,
large companies,
nonprofit organizations,
and government agencies.
They also help to
ensure that the people
served by those
organizations remain safe.